---
title: "Used or New? Investigating Consumer Preferences in the Electric Vehicle Market"
collection: talks
type: "Poster Presentation Talk"
permalink: /talks/2025-01-06-used-new-ev
venue: "Transportation Research Board Annual Meeting"
date: 2025-01-06
location: "Washington, D.C., USA"
---

**Presentation No:** TRBAM-25-02448

**Abstact:** Although used electric vehicles (EVs) are a cheaper option for consumers interested in purchasing EVs, the current literature lacks a deep understanding of the characteristics of the potential secondary (used) EV market. This paper uses data from a stated preference survey to investigate the factors affecting the choice between a used or new EV and delineates clusters within each group. The sample consists of 1,181 adult residents of Indiana and is representative in terms of age, gender, and income. A binary logistic regression identified the determinants influencing the participants’ likelihood of buying a used EV. The results indicated that age, gender, occupation, income, home area, political preference, current EV usage, commute distance, and lack of knowledge of available incentives (such as the Federal Tax Credit) are significant factors in the decision to purchase a used EV. Latent class analyses were then conducted to classify both groups—those who prefer used EVs and those who prefer new EVs—into clusters. Among participants who would buy a used EV, three classes were defined: budget-constrained participants, those apprehensive about getting used to EVs, and those who believe the cost-benefit of used EVs is better and depreciation is lower. For participants who prefer new EVs, two clusters were delineated: those who prefer new EVs for better performance and reliability, and those who prefer new vehicles regardless of type. This study offers targeted policy implications for stakeholders interested in fostering the adoption of both used and new EVs and accelerating transportation electrification.
